# monitoring_audit_report
monitoring, audit and hardening report is been generated by using bash script. 

Task 1

1. *Specific Sections:*
   You can view specific sections of the dashboard using command-line switches:
   - -cpu to view the top 10 most used applications.
   - -network to view network monitoring.
   - -disk to view disk usage.
   - -load to view system load.
   - -memory to view memory usage.
   - -process to view process monitoring.
   - -services to view service monitoring.		
   - -dashboard to view dashboard.    
   Example:
   
   Add Execute Permission:
   chmod +x monitoring.sh
   
   bash
   ./monitoring.sh -cpu

2. *Custom Dashboard:*  
   To display the entire dashboard and then exit:
   bash
   ./monitoring.sh -dashboard
   
### Requirements:
- Ensure you have awk, ps, netstat, mpstat, df, ifconfig, and systemctl installed and accessible in your environment.
    apt-get install net-tools -y
    apt-get install openssh-server -y
    apt-get install nginx -y
    apt-get install -y apache2
    apt-get install -y iptables

- For non-systemd systems, replace systemctl commands with equivalent service management commands.

Tasks 2

1. *Place the Script on the Server:*
   - Make the script executable:
     bash
     chmod +x audit_and_hardening.sh
     

2. *Run the Script:*
   - Execute the script with root privileges to perform the security audit and hardening:
     bash
     ./audit_and_hardening.sh
     

3. *Configuration File for Custom Checks:*
   - If you want to add custom checks, create a configuration file at /etc/audit_config.conf. Example:
     bash
     echo "Checking for open NFS ports:"
     netstat -tuln | grep ':
